I have my component running here.
And it has a list of machines.
The exercise is to add
a per-route navigation guard.
So the idea is that I don't
want this to be the default.
I want this to be the default.
So to do that, I will move into my,
Router code specifically so
I'll cd into, I have to cd out.
Router and
then I will look at the routes component.
So again, route.js router slash index.js,
whichever you prefer is fine.
And so what I wanna do is I want
to go into my LoginScreen because,
actually my InventoryScreen, so I want to
add my per-route navigation guard here.
So what I'll do is I'll do
a beforeEnter to, from, and next.
I think I need reference to this, yes.
And then with this,
I am essentially just checking the store.
One other thing to note that I showed
in this particular stage is that
there's an import store.
And we're gonna need access to that
because your router file doesn't have
access to this [INAUDIBLE] store.
You need to import the store
in order to use it.
So I'm gathering the getter,
and I specifically care about,
I believe I have a method
call is locked in.
This is the part where I forgot
if I capitalized it properly.
And then I do that.
So I create a navigation guard
very easily and I hope that works.
So if I navigate to localhost.8080,
it automatically does not
do what I need to do.
[LAUGH] Why?
Hold on.
Okay, Let's figure out what I did.
BeforeEnter: (to, from, next),
if store.getters is logged in and
that's probably because I have a user
of item and I need it to be null.
That was my dad.
There you go.
So now automatically when I try to
access my route, I'm navigated to login.
And that's because users now, so
previously, my user was an object.
That was totally a typo on my part,
I apologize.
But now that user doesn't exist so it's
null, it will return me to the login page.
So that's great, that's my first
per-route navigation guard using Vuex.
So really useful, but I think it's
useful to hook that into various
pieces of the application as well because,
I have,
let's look, I have an admin screen as
well as an InventoryScreen, let's say.
So I don't want users to have
access to inventory because
currently they can access
inventory quite easily.
And that's not a good thing because I
don't want them to have access to it.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to,
Essentially repeat what I did earlier.
So that anytime a user
tries to access inventory,
They are navigated back to login so
it automatically shuts
anyone who's trying to access
routes they're not supposed to out.
So that's really nice.
This is all great because per-route
navigation guards are really useful as
a way of navigating specific routes that
you want to protect from unauthorized
users.
But as you might notice,
in applications oftentimes,
there are many routes that you don't
want people to have access to.
And it can be really hefty for
you to constantly write per-route
navigation guards for every single route.
And so this sort of per-route
navigation guards works in
the instance when you want one
route specifically protected.
Or you have things that are very specific
to that route that you wanna check for
like permissions and so on.